The Firemen - Deathless any%

I'm going to keep these comments shorter since I explained most of it in my w/deaths notes. Overall I feel this is the better overall run of the two, and this category as a whole is more difficult and prone to luck than w/deaths.

Stage 1
This stage actually went really well. Same routes as normal, and I manage to get through with an 8:38. This ties my PB.

Stage 2
This is the first place where the route diverges between the two categories. The first two rooms are identical, but I make a slight detour to save a person and restore health. It's possible to go through this stage without saving the person, but the luck required isn't realistic for the time it would save. The rest of the rooms go well, and I finish out with a respectable 8:28. PB is 8:30.

Stage 3
First part goes as planned, not much to say. The luck in this portion was actually exceptional; I very rarely make it through so quickly, and Kevin was cooperating too. Getting hit by the large flames at the very end of the level was unfortunate, but I had gained enough time earlier to offset it. The boss fight ends in my favor too. Finished with 9:59, PB is 10:00.

Stage 4
The kitchen goes extremely poorly and I lose almost all of my HP which forces me to be cautious the rest of the stage. The time wasn't bad, but I require at least one hit for a good strategy on the boss. I get some lucky non-spawns in the fitness room which brought back a second or two. The boss room and fight go well, although I took the room a bit slow. I finish with a 8:15, and PB is 8:19.

Stage 5
This is the second stage that is significantly impacted by this category. I usually plan to save a death for Hell, but since that's not an option I have to save a person on the side and regain some small amount of HP. I also go out of my way to pick up a water bomb in one of the earlier offices, which is a couple seconds out of the way. Hell as a whole went well, but my main consideration is having enough HP to get through the boss room and boss. I nail the right damage boosts to get through to the boss, and since I have HP to spare I can take the slightly slower strategy and use only 2 water bombs. This lets me save one for Stage 6 and allows for Super Water at the end. Finished in 9:58; PB in this category is 10:02

Stage 6
Nothing notable in the first several rooms. Kevin almost gets stuck in the Tarp Room which would have been disastrous. Luckily I stay back enough to coax him to walk around the rubble. I have plenty of HP for the rooftop as well, so I take the risky routes and it pays off. After that the boss finishes cleanly. I lose one second on the window from poor explosions/flames. Time: 11:27, PB: 11:32.

Final time is 11:15, which is very respectable and within a minute of the TAS's time. This is a stressful run since there's so much improvisation and the penalties for excessive damage are so much harsher. It's still definitely improvable, but I don't have the motivation to fight with Kevin to try to achieve it. The best routes in this category wouldn't save additional people at all, but there's just too much variability to hope for this when the difference is at most a few seconds.

I have attached insightful commentary to this run. It should explain things in a bit more detail. For insight into the characters' thoughts, see the audio commentary attached to my w/deaths run.

Enjoy!
~Omnigamer